Okay, talking to Ron Lane.
Ron, why don't you just tell me what your title is here.
I'm the facility manager for the Harvard Law Story.
And is that, is it Ron, or what's your full name?
Yeah, Ronald.
Ronald.
Do you use a middle initial?
A. Okay, my middle initial as well.
So you said you opened this facility, the Harvard Depository, in 1986, with one module.
Right.
Barbara Graham, who is currently the, uh, um,
What is her title?
Assistant Vice President of... I've got her name.
I'll be interviewing her, by the way.
...of the Harvard University Library for Administrative Services, I believe.
And she was involved from the very beginning.
And they went around and they looked at what existed at the time.
They looked to see what the Library of Commerce was doing.
They looked at the Northern California Regional Library.
I'm not even sure what the title is, but it's a depository in Northern California, which is about twice our size.
Really?
Is that where Berkeley puts their stuff?
I think so.
I've heard of this.
Yeah, actually a truck that goes out and goes back.
I talked to somebody about five years ago.
But this is now the model one, right?
So you went and studied and learned from...
their experience.
I don't mean to say they were mistakes, but their experience.
We went to see what was out there and then came back and took the good parts and invented a whole lot more.
So it opened in 1986 with one module, which is where you're standing in now.
This is the first one?
This part, yeah.
Warehouse is about 8,500 square feet and it's another 2,500
I see.
This is from module one.
Right.
Only 8,500 square feet.
That doesn't impress, that wouldn't impress people.
There's a lot of space.
It's not like a warehouse that might have 30,000 square feet, let's say.
Right.
But as you'll show me, you'll use your space quite effectively, right?
Yes, we do.
Because, well, one of the basic underlying concepts is that we are a storage facility, a library.
So what we do is maximize utilization of space.
And the way we do that is we sort by size.
So if you picture a library shelf, it's half air because they do it with catalogs.
And you have tall books and short books of the same topic.
So if you really picture that library shelf in your mind, it's half air.
What we do is womanate the air.
And we do that very simply by sorting the books for size.
And this was something that was invented here, with the trays.
We took the Princeton model of books, as to what size they generally were, and we broke it down into five different size trays, based on width.
The A's, B's, C's.
Ranging from?
Why don't you just tell me, ranging from what?
I'm not even sure what the size is.
That's about seven inches, and that's about nine.
This is probably a folio size here.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, eight different trays, I guess.
No, well, because we do highs and lows.
There are five basic book trays, A's, B's, C's, B's, and E's.
Okay.
And we further break it down into highs and lows just to further reduce wasted space.
So you're paying for less air.
If I was a scholar, then, I can't come here and use any books.
You don't want me to even know how to get here, right?
It's true.
What we do very simply in sizing a book is just use a very simple template like this, and we'll just unpack boxes full of books, drag them into the corner, and then see which size tray we're going to put them in.
Because this falls in the yellow here, it's a B. And because it's above that line, it comes a B high.
Okay.
And of course, every one of these is given a bar-coded sticker here.
Each one of these that comes to us,
is barcoded by the customer with a unique barcode.
The customer being, I see this is Widener Library or it could be Cowboy or whatever.
Law school.
Law school or any one of a hundred different Harvard libraries.
Right.
And we treat each customer separately.
We don't mix them when we sort.
We don't mix them in trays.
We don't mix them on shells.
So it does make it easier to retrieve them then.
Well, more importantly, it keeps the customer media together.
They're very nudity about having their books mixed with anyone else's.
That makes sense.
Do you have any, what are considered rare books here?
Probably.
We really don't know because we don't pay any attention.
Well, is Houghton Library one of your customers?
Yes.
So you do.
That's the answer to that.
True.
But what we get is they do the cataloging therein.
They'll call it up in Hollis, and they'll read that barcode into the location field.
We're looking at the bottom of the barcode here, and just as an example, it's HN7NQZ2.
So that would be the code for widener.
Right, that would be...
That would be listed, well, whatever.
This title and all bibliographic data with it would be in Hollis.
Okay.
Which I'm familiar with.
I'm online with Hollis.
So when they send a book out here, when they barcode it, the transfer team at the library puts the barcode on it, calls this up in Hollis, and it puts this barcode in a location field.
So when you call it up in Hollis after they've sent it here,
You'll have all the bibliographic data, and then it will tell you that it's located in Harvard Depository and that this is the barcode number.
Because I do not carry bibliographic data in my system.
I only know that barcode.
I have no clue as to what is associated with it.
Okay, but you know where it is and how you can get it very quickly.
Right.
Right?
That's all that matters.
Right.
I have no need for the bibliographic data, which is a good way to set it up.
I think so.
because it keeps this, as it should be, strictly a storage facility.
And I mean, I could have a Gutenberg Bible here and wouldn't know.
All I know is a barcode, because I know the Gutenberg Bible.
I was sitting in a widener.
So what happens, we sort them for size, and then on the trays, we put our own unique identifier.
This is a unique barcode in and of itself.
So what we have is the
that would be in the physical association of the customer's unique ID to the depository's unique ID.
So, I notice everyone begins with T, which is a trite.
Trite, okay.
And then we have alpha, alpha, bravo, charlie, charlie, delta, D, T, D, T, A, C, C, right.
Okay, good.
All right.
So, when they're finished, filling a trite, it goes on a cart, go right to the pump.
of the number of items in the tray, the right to count on the tray label.
So that when we go in from here, we'll travel with a batch sheet that we haven't filled out yet, which will just have, whatever the book code cart number is, 45, for example.
Then I'll start writing on just the totals from the trays.
So this took 14, 31,
11, 31, 21, 33, 20.
Just out of curiosity, I'm looking at a tray here, 45, and it's got on it three volumes of a book called Polish Review, another one, Research and Postwar Planning, Survey of Agencies.
Why are these books here?
Because nobody's using them?
Why have these books been sent out to the depository from Cambridge or Boston?
Hopefully because they are expected to be a low retrieval item.
A low retrieval item.
Okay.
Which means that, you know, they're a seldom used book at the library, therefore they're eating up space that more active volumes could be using in Cambridge.
Part of our service to the client is to be able to provide them with whatever cutoff figure they use to recall a book and keep it.
For example, we can run a report that says the following items have been retrieved three or more times.
or five or more times if that's what your cutoff is, or two or more times.
During a particular calendar period, maybe within a year or two years or at all.
Yeah.
Yeah, it can be at all or within a specific time frame.
And if there's a greater frequency of demand, then the thing maybe goes, maybe it ought to be going back to Cambridge, is what we're saying.
And does that happen very often?
Yeah.
It does.
They exercise some...
sorting process on their end to say, well, we think these aren't very high retrieval.
So we'll send them here.
But they do monitor.
And if it is more active than it ought to be, they take it back.
Well, the computer monitors it one or the other.
I'm sure that this is not possible without a very sophisticated computer system, is it?
What you're doing here?
Not really.
I have to believe that the computer makes this kind of thing possible.
My next book also is going to look into computers and books.
In fact, do you digitize anything here, or do you just store?
No, we just store.
So if any of this material is going to be digitized, that'll be done someplace else.
It'll be done in Cambridge or wherever.
That's not your job.
It's not your concern.
Nope.
Your concern is to take care of it well and make it available when somebody wants it.
Right.
As quickly as possible.
I think we're still in backup mode.
Meaning what?
Let me show you how the system works.
Oh, okay.
Well, basically what happens is that the trays will come in here.
This disease has only... What room, what do you call this room we're in?
Processing.
Okay.
If you see what we have here, we have individual items associated to depository ID.
Right.
So it's the same whether it's books or whether it's something else.
We have the customer's unique ID to associate with the depository ID.
And I'm just reading randomly.
Low Religious Education Institutes.
Next one.
Spoon River Association of Universalists in Illinois.
Illinois Universalist Convention.
So these are probably periodicals of some sort of journals.
Yes, I have no idea.
The Spoon River Association of Universalists in Illinois.
I mean, I can't imagine that's a high-demand item, but...
You never know.
Somebody might need it.
Somebody will need it.
That must be the mandate here.
At some point, somebody will need it, right?
Actually, this is a semi-active collection because when I got the call from Tim Driscoll that they were going to send it out here,
He said he got all kinds of calls and letters of protest.
Actually, I noticed these are all religion-related items.
This is from the Divinity School.
So this is from the Divinity School.
Does this collection have a name that we're looking at?
Can you determine that from what you see here?
No.
Okay.
But it is from the Andover-Harvard Library, which is the Divinity School.
So what happens with the computer system, very simply, is that we call it up and tell it we're going to do a newer session.
And we put in data to say what media type and code it is.
And then it says, all right, what is the tray number?
And we'll enter the tray number.
And then it'll say, all right, what are you going to associate with that tray?
And then we'll just zap each individual item.
Well, don't mind if I ask questions and jump around the block because I ask them when it occurred to me, but how large is your staff?
How many people would you have to have working here?
I have three careers and ten staff.
So really, so 13 people are handling how many?
Million books?
We brought in this year 500,000 items.
This year being up through the end of May 96.
It'll be through the end of June.
So the fiscal.
Yeah, fiscal year.
So that's a 12-month period.
During the preceding 12-month period, you brought in half a million or so items.
Right.
Not all necessarily books, but... Right, which is a little misleading in that normally we would do about half that.
I have had added staff, too.
I've had two additional beyond that to deal with the volume.
It's because we got a lot of books in it.
We had a lot of stuff from Needle to here.
Right, needle.
Every time I hear needle tape pitch, we're talking about NADL.
Plus their own material, plus the law school, they're renovating Langdell, so I have a tremendous volume of law school material.
For the past year, we did twice the norm in terms of the number of new items coming in, but normally
Normally, I would work with about 12 or 13 people.
Just a rough guess.
How many of these book cards would you say you have?
60.
I'm buying a couple out of this large.
Gaylord has a nice one for 200 bucks.
My house is filled with books, too.
I'm learning things from you as we go along, too.
600 bucks a whack, huh?
You don't get a discount?
Jesus.
No, but the thing is, these stand up much better than six wheels.
These are extremely good carts.
These were bought over a period of time.
Some of these carts are five years old.
Some of them are four.
Some of them are three.
And you can't tell the old ones from the new ones.
And we're beating them every day in terms of weight.
which if I had the $200 car, I'd be... Yeah, well, the Gaylord ones, and they're professional, it's part of the Gaylord, they say they'd warrant them for 15 years, but certainly not for this time.
So we're, I gather now, about to enter what, would you say?
Well, actually, let me show you the, this is the loading dock.
Okay.
Initially, with this module 1, all I had was this for a loading dock, and it was way too small.
And we've added this on because I really needed the space.
So I have a truck dock, and I have a van dock, and this becomes kind of a courier area out here.
So you have a lot of input, don't you, in terms of
Look at this.
This is very impressive.
Now, these are my stacks.
All right.
30 feet high.
Uh-huh.
As I said, the shelves are 36 inches deep by 53 inches wide, and they vary in height, depending on, you know, what I need.
The same systems, while closing the gap out here, when we finish the computer processing, what we have is an item associated with a tray.
Uh-huh.
And from out here, each of the shelves has a barcode.
And what we do with handheld readers is we do the same kind of thing.
We open the shelf, and it says, what are you going to put on this shelf?
And then we hit the tray labels.
And each of these trays is 18 inches long.
Now, these look like microphones here.
Right.
How many?
How many going up?
What's the vertical number going up approximately?
Well, it will vary depending on the size of the shelves, but roughly 30.
Roughly 30.
So this module that we're in, I think you said is 8,500 square feet.
But how high is the building again?
30 feet.
Okay.
So effective use.
Has anyone figured out what the square footage is effectively?
I mean, in a realistic manner?
Well, the cubic footage that I use, we don't deal with cubic feet.
What we deal with is book storage feet, which is 12 by 12 by 9.
So that they have some concept of how to be able to translate what they're going to take off the fiber shells and put out here.
So we use BSF as a measurement.
And in each one of the modules, we'll get 150,000 BSF.
I forget how many lineal feet that is, but it's roughly
We've got roughly about 9,000 shells in each module, 36 inches wide, deep by 53 inches wide, so that can be converted if you're mathematically inclined.
Now, a call comes in to get an item.
Right.
Does somebody go right out to get it, or is there a time each day where they try and go and get all of them at one time?
I'm just wondering logistically how it works.
We currently work that circulation generally heats up starting at 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
Okay.
We may get calls during the day.
If it's a few items, we'll just wait.
And what happens at 3 o'clock, basically, is we shift our focus from bringing in new stuff to going into circulation.
Do you mind if I come back at some point to see this in action?
No, that'd be fine.
I'd like to just see it at some point.
What happens is, for example, if Widener calls up and on their list they want Howard Widener
FTX9, I think it's what does so, throw my glasses.
Then the system is going to tell me it's an aisle two on the left, ladder two, shelf six, TA10357 in the front.
Are they going to give you a title or just a barcode number?
Just a barcode number.
So in other words, let's just go back and pull this out.
So the fact that this may be WERDER, that seems to be a German text, that's quite irrelevant to you, right?
Right.
I don't care.
That means nothing to you.
I can't read German anyway.
It's Harvard College Library from the Library of Konrad von Mavre, M.A.B.
area of Munich, the gift of Archibald Carey Coolidge.
It's an 1827 book.
This is a fairly rare book, my friend, and it's a German title, which I can't read, and it seems to be signed.
We just kind of pulled this out at random, didn't we?
These are books here that are 170-odd years old, and the...
The title is irrelevant to you, isn't it?
Yep.
I don't care.
Okay.
Good.
You know, when we come out and put these things on the shelves and then, you know, drop that information back into the system, then I have everything I need to find it.
Yeah.
I'm sure that the likelihood of things being up there is just as great as something being down here.
Is that right?
Yep.
Totally random.
So how's he going to go up there?
Ah.
That's why I want to come back one afternoon and see you doing this stuff.
It is easy.
Now, these are forklifts that have a platform on it.
And it becomes a Raymond man-aboard lift.
Say again, what do you call it?
It's made by Raymond.
Raymond, R-A-Y-M-O-N-D, is the manufacturer and is a man-aboard lift.
So this can actually bring a, it can send up an individual or a whole pallet of things.
Do things go in as pallets or do they go in as boxes?
Well, no, we don't.
Trades, rather.
Trades, I mean.
We put boxes away if it's a large load.
What we do is we process them right on pallets.
We take the platform off and just use the forks and take the pallet off.
I see.
So the retrieval business basically takes place during a set period of time, as a general rule, unless there's an urgent need for something.
And you guarantee delivery, what, in the next cycle, tomorrow, or that'll go in tonight?
If we receive the request by 3.30 in the afternoon, then you'll have it tomorrow morning before noon.
After that, it would be the next business day.
Where does it go?
To the requesting customer, so to speak?
It goes to the requesting library circulation desk.
Okay, so if it's Widener, it goes to Widener.
If it's Andover or Harvard or whatever, it'll go out there.
How many vans do you have running?
Two.
One is primarily a circulation van, the other one's primarily on a session van picking up new stuff.
Okay.
And what would you say the normal handle is each day?
Do you get many requests each day?
Oh, yeah.
We process, let's see, probably I'll do around 55,000 retrievals this year,
Wow.
Let's divide that by 250, 160-something a day.
Really?
That's pretty good.
My math's not that good.
No, 55,000 a year will be a little better than 1,000 a week, right?
Yeah.
So figure that out.
I think the math is pretty good, actually.
These are record center cartons.
You know, your standard...
Yeah, and this is the Schlesinger Library of Radcliffe College.
And this is, again, module one.
Right.
And there are three others.
Like this.
Now we're entering another module, right?
Step into module two.
Now this was open in 1991, four years after, or five years after the first one.
Right.
And the only difference here
We changed shelving.
We went through pallet racking uprights.
Look at that side over there.
That's folded post.
And in that kind of a system, the shelving, the actual shelf itself, is part of the rigidity of the system.
I see.
We went to this kind of shelving.
because we could be more flexible with it.
And we could put in these, plot plan drawers.
You can't do this over there because you can't go 60 inches up over there without shelves because then the posts are too flexible.
So the planning that went into this must have been extraordinary.
Oh yes, especially back in the beginning, talking about why it's 53 inches wide.
Now you can see that we have good fit here with D-trace.
They're a good fit here with C-trace.
They're a good fit here with D-trace.
We had the boxes over there that we looked at.
They're a good fit here with E-trace.
And boy, there's very little extra air, isn't there?
Right, and that's why you don't pay for air out here like you do on a library shop.
How about fire protection?
Do you have, I know there's something up there.
We have twice the number of smokes required by code for this kind of building.
And we're online, direct dial to the South Pole Fire Department, plus monitored by ADT, who also makes a call.
The first two modules are not sprinkled.
Modules going forward are sprinkled.
So, you know, water being the greatest enemy of books.
Other than fire.
So what is the substance you have to put out fires?
Do you have like a powder or something?
No, we would fight it with, you know, initially if we had something, we would use our fire extinguisher on site, but basically it would be water.
which is not so bad.
You know, they can reclaim a water damage book.
But at the time that Unit 1 and 2 were built, there was a conscious decision by the library community not to sprinkle.
And that changed over time.
When we opened Unit 3... And when did Unit 3 open?
Unit 3 opened...
this time last year, 1995.
So basically, you're doing about one every four years, it sounds like, four to five years.
Yeah, four tops.
We've added unit four because we got pushed to it.
As I said, we've done twice the norm this year than it's just normal.
Well, with Langdell closing and Needle coming out here, plus all the stuff that we normally take,
Plus Countway is scheduled to send material.
So we would have run out at an odd time.
So we just continued on and built the next one.
So, but at this rate, you'll probably, well, I guess you've got room to expand for about another 15 years then, probably.
And then you'll figure something else out.
Maybe they'll give you a few more of their hundred and some odd acres.
Yep, never know.
The university has, what, 130, you said, acres?
160 acres.
They had a, you know... And they've given you six.
Yeah, somebody, well, the library purchased from the med school or whatever.
Med school owns it.
Now, this is kind of right, and that's the primate center?
What do they have, monkeys over there?
Yeah, that's primate research down there.
So you have med school personnel over there, right?
I mean, one anticipates that at some point we should be able to add on extra land for more of these modules.
To some degree, yes.
But what's the overall plan?
I mean, is there any limit to how far this thing can go?
Or not?
Well, there's a limit by the property lines, but other than that, no.
I mean, this is as far that way as we can go before we hit problem lines.
You see, a lot of universities wouldn't keep all this stuff.
They'd be accepted to dispose of it, wouldn't they?
So there's a philosophical element here, isn't there?
Right, because Harvard is a collecting library.
Well, set up collecting libraries.
And they are probably always going to be.
You know, it will be interesting in the future to determine, to see if there is some kind of...
collaboration between the various universities who are collecting libraries to say well listen we can't all collect everything and there's no sense in all of us collecting everything and whether or not there will be some well since you already have you know a really good collection going in this area you keep collecting that and I'll stop that would be interesting to see if that comes about and of course you wonder if all of this stuff ultimately will be digitized some of it will be some of it won't I mean it's
It's not an inexpensive process, I'm sure, a time-conservant.
The thing of it is, because we are environmental storage, and explain what that means, environmental storage.
This is all air-conditioned and humidity controlled, and it's done by computer.
Out here in the main storage area, where we have basically paper-based media, we cycle the...
temperature and humidity with the seasons.
In the summertime, I'll be about 60 and 50, temperature and relative humidity.
In the wintertime, I'll be 50 and about 40.
And in this cycle, as we come into summer,
a little bit warmer and higher humidity.
But because we have that, and because we use sodium vapor lamps, and because we have charcoal filters which take anything out of the atmosphere, and because of the way we store and the good air circulation we have, we don't form any microclimates, we'll extend the life
of these books.
Is it going up by a factor of eight?
Do you mind if I take a picture?
No, go ahead.
Because of the environment.
What you get, because we have an environment.
We're not just a storage facility, we're also a preservation facility, because with the controls that we have for paper-based media,
it increases the life of the materials by a factor of eight.
So if a book's going to last 100 years on its own, it's going to last 800 years in this kind of an environment.
Yeah.
So you get more than just a warehouse here.
What you have is a preservation environment for all of the material that's here.
Tell me a little bit about your background.
You came through library work?
Have you been here since the beginning?
No, I came here in 89 after we'd been up for three years.
I worked for Iron Mountain, which is the country's largest record storage company.
We're talking about paper records, not vinyl records or anything like that.
Right, and they were part of building records.
They were part of building Unit 1 because Richard Reese had gotten his MBA, I believe, at Harvard, was part-time faculty and was the president of Iron Mountain.
So Iron Mountain helped with the design originally and had a facility management contract for the first five years of operation.
I was the vice president, the manager rather, of administration for New England.
And when this became available, I decided I'd rather do this.
That's great.
Do you have like a, I mean, a feel for books?
I mean, I write about people who, this is really a job.
I mean, you can mention the customers and this is inventory.
Oh yeah, we're very... But you know, I mean, you have a sense of what it is that you're storing here.
Oh, I think we all do, but on the other hand, I think what some people have difficulty realizing is that the Gutenberg Bible, for example, would be just another book with a barcode on it if it were here.
That's a great quote.
You know, because people are... For example, somebody's
Some of these records we have, I'm sure, are sensitive.
I mean, you've got all kinds of stuff out here from general counsel.
You've got all kinds of stuff out here from law school.
You know, it wouldn't surprise me if I had, you know, O.J.
stuff out here because of Dirtuit.
Sure.
But to us, it's just another block full of paper.
So I have to believe, then, that having brought that up, that you must have some kind of a security system that people really don't get access to this stuff.
Well, that's true.
Part of the security system is that we don't know what it is.
Because we don't have, and yet people aren't... We don't have the catalog size.
And yet people aren't allowed to examine it either.
That's correct.
We're not allowed to look in the boxes.
But it's when you're working in this environment, there's so much stuff flowing in for which we're responsible and treating in a, you know, a good media handling methodology out there and then getting it onto the shelves.
But that's what we do.
We bring stuff in.
We put it on the shelf.
If you ask for it, we get it for you.
And we don't care what it is.
We don't know what it is.
We don't care.
All we need to know is you want this barcode you gave us tomorrow morning.
And that's what you get.
That's great.
So we have kind of a simply elegant system, but some of these other places change.
But you notice we have aisles, we have left and right, and we have ladder numbers.
If you think about a library, you keep walking through, looking at these little cards on the end of the aisles, trying to find out what the category is that's in that aisle.
And we don't have that.
I noticed that there are eight aisles.
This is actually the seventh aisle of Module 2, or the seventh aisle starting.
There's one start over there.
Yeah, seventh aisle starting from one over the Module 1.
Okay, so there are four aisles in each module, giving us, what, eight?
Well, there's eight through here.
You know, here we're up to 12 currently operating.
We're up to 12 currently operating, and then we're adding another four in here.
And I can see now, you know, I said, wow, 8,500 square feet, two and a half million, if it were books.
That's not possible.
But as I look at it now, it's possible.
No matter what, no matter what,
The tight media is, it's always the same.
You see those document boxes.
Nice efficient fit on the shelf for those.
Nice efficient fit for records on the cartons.
Efficient fit for all the different tray sizes we have.
That's why we're at 53 inches.
I'm going to take a couple of shots.
Texas made a mistake going to 48.
They didn't ask us.
And they wouldn't be able to do it.
I'm going to just take a couple of shots of what you're saying.
Texas' mistake was
So they didn't come here.
They probably figured they could do it just as well.
Oh yeah, they're all in Texas, you know.
Been there, done that before.
So I guess you've, now when people come from abroad or wherever, this is what you show them.
But what kind of questions do they have, just out of curiosity?
Some good, some bad, and some they don't absorb.
I think part of what they tend not to absorb is that
What we do, the simplicity that we have with aisles and left and right faces and ladders all the same number, they don't get.
They still think the library.
I think it's part of the reason that what we have here is we have a good ... At Harvard we have a good mix is because ... I'm a storage person.
And in the beginning, Iron Mountain was storage people.
And Iron Mountain, again, is where?
Well, they were involved in the initial planning.
I see.
And the initial running of the facility.
Okay, so this is an outfit called Iron Mountain.
Right.
Okay.
It's the country's largest record storage.
Okay, you mentioned that earlier.
This is the media film wall.
It's kept at a 50...
Carson, 1535.
It's like we used to call in the Navy a reefer.
This is for microfilm.
So what we have here is master microfilm and various kinds of things.
And this is a carpenter center film.
This is called a Mark III Romanumeral III Diner Track System.
It's like a refrigerator, isn't it?
It's like a cold storage is what it is.
We've had this done as a turnkey operation by Harris, Harris Environmental Systems.
We told them what we wanted was a box within a box, and it's all controlled by its own air conditioning unit, which is overhead.
Do you have people here all the time?
We're open for a while today, and we're monitored for burglary and fire.
You know what, I'm sorry?
For burglary and fire.
We have perimeter security.
This is really great.
I can't tell you how useful this will be.
I guess what, you know, it's the basic simplicities, the customer unique ID to the unique tray ID, the unique tray ID, the unique shelf ID, and it just allows you to find anything within 18 inches.
Can I get a couple of pictures of these folks working?
I think this is what it's all about.
Thank you.
Normally.
Okay.
Anything else, Ron, that I've missed, do you think?
No, basically, that's, you know, that's kind of it.
The computer system is sophisticated yet simple, if you will.
It's a very well-designed system.
It's still on backup, right?
Haven't sent this online yet?
No, we're back, actually.
But this was designed for us.
I spent a year in concert with OIS writing this fact,
OIS being?
Office of Information Systems at Harvard University Libraries.
They do all kinds of things, but those are the people who are writing in Jim Hollis.
And then we spent a year on the phone with the developer.
That's fast.
So these are PCs actually.
Are these tied into a... Well, actually they're
Right now, they're about to be dumb terminals.
So you call them clients, right?
Do they request to come in by computer, or do they come in, you know?
They're starting to now.
Before, we always got to meet by phone or fax, and now we have something called Fetcher's, which allows you to sit at your terminal and call up Hollis.
If it's out here, you can directly request it through your terminal.
And it queues up, and we get a machine readable file four times a day.
So you have accessions, retrievals, copy retrievals, permanent withdrawals.
Permanent withdrawals means they're going back, I would imagine.
Refiles, deletions, management menu, all sorts of basic stuff.
And there you go.
So you're able to... Now the fellows that go up in those
forklifts there they get a list of things and strictly yeah they'd get a retrieval list in other words why they send us a request for you know 60 items then what we'll wind up with is a pick list for those 60 items which gives us the most efficient way through the stocks to get them i see oh good the computer figures that out for you
That's great.
They just go where the list tells me, you know, file two, left, part of six, you know, shelf 14.
So the computer will figure out a route for you.
So that's why you try and really focus it at a certain time and when you can do them all efficiently.
How long does it take to build one of these buildings, one of these modules?
About nine or ten months.
Really?
It takes that long.
They're a little bit more sophisticated than they might appear, can't they?
Yeah, it's all, you know, it's block building.
It's all insulated.
Yeah, it's quite an undertaking.
Each module is probably two and a half million dollars.
Very good.
But it's a lot cheaper than adding to a library.
Oh, I think so.
I think so.
It's kind of nice.
Now, do you live out this way?
The curve is accelerating for other universities to put these things up.
Not only other universities, Library of Congress is also embarking on one very similar to this.
But you have to have something out that's accessible where, I mean, the land must be.
You couldn't do this in Cambridge, could you?
No.
Well, some universities are doing it on campus.
Minnesota is putting me as underground.
Right under the campus.
They have limestone caverns under the campus, so that's where they're going to put their storage facility.
Very expensive.
Now, you wonder what the temptation might be to just get rid of the books and digitize the stuff.
You know, you don't know anything about that.
It's a debate.
Well, it's philosophical decision-making in our head.
Oh, yeah, no, I understand, but I just came from a conference in Maryland two weeks ago, a library.
Boy, they're talking.
There's a new state.
campus out in California that wasn't even built with a library.
I mean, it's all computers.
The temptation must be, it's cheap, you know, you can get everything you need over a computer.
Why have a book at all?
I'm, of course, opposed to that.
It's a very significant thing for me to see.
Well, there was a lot of faculty resistance in the beginning.
To what?
To the depository.
You know, books going out.
Books flowing in a library where you can browse them kind of thing.
And that if we were going to have this kind of facility, then we had to have a reading room.
So, we have a reading room.
Can you put the lights on in here?
I'd love to get an available light shot.
This is good.
I agree with this, you know.
There is a reading room at the depository.
In fact, how about pulling Ed Harvey here to the head of the table?
This is where it belongs.
Yeah.
There's no reason why they didn't want to anyway.
Yeah, because we're 30 miles away.
and they're not authorized access to the media.
I would have to have special permission from the library circulation, or actually head of department, to allow them access to the media.
So this room was actually kind of put in as a concession.
Yeah.
So has it ever been used as a meeting room?
No.
So it's kind of like a coffee mess, as we used to say in the name.
It's comforting for us.
We go to our construction meetings and we hold employee meetings here.
When group tours come to see how we do it, we sit around and tell them.
Great.
Thanks, Ron.
I didn't sign in by the way.
Did you want me to sign in?
Yes, please.
There are 13 million in the system.
Ron has about a million and a half here of books.
at some point to balance by tipping their direction, won't it?
Probably.
Down, well, down the road a piece.
Yeah, I think that's a point worth making.
Most of the books are not here.
The books they're not using are here.
Right.
Most of the books are still in Cambridge.
Theoretically, I have the very low activity stuff that somebody calls for once every five, ten years.
But the other point of it is that it's immediately available.
I mean, you call today, you get it tomorrow morning.
And if you really had to have it today, if you're somebody important and the library wants to pay me $100 to get it there today, I'll do it.
We do have an emergency retrieval service.
And when you say pay you up, meaning paying you by going into the budget to handle... Right.
We run as a...
Well, as damn near everything else in Harvard does, we're supposed to cover our costs.
And, you know, it's Harvard money from one pocket to another pocket, but we are an expense to the library.
So if somebody is willing to shift $100 from their budget to your budget, you'll get the item ASAP into Cambridge?
Yep.
And I'm sure there are authorizations to do that.
And I'm sure it probably even happens periodically, right?
It does.
And, of course, you never know what the item is.
All you know is, like if I said, give me an example, all you'd be able to give me is a barcode number.
Yep.
I have no clue.
I mean, we will sometimes get emergency retrieval things from general counsel, for example, because they're preparing some case or whatever, and they need something, and they discover it's out here.
And lawyers being lawyers, they want it now.
Yep.
And general counsel just calls up and says, you know,
authorization code xxx give me this box number and you take it to cables good i am going to put some more film in this is a nice picture here actually it's beginning to be a nice looking video yeah it is it is i can't even imagine what it looked like when it was just a one unit anymore four times the size when i came here well
I'm going to just walk around and take a couple of exterior shots if it's okay with you.
And I'll be in touch, Mark.
Thank you.